# stderred

stderr in red.

## About

stderred hooks on write() function from libc in order to colorize all
stderr output that goes to terminal thus making it distinguishable from stdout.
Basically it wraps text that goes to file with descriptor "2" with proper
escape codes making text red.

It's implemented as a shared library and doesn't require recompilation of
existing binaries thanks to `LD_PRELOAD` feature of Linux dynamic linker.

## Installation

Clone this repository:

    git clone git://github.com/sickill/stderred.git
    cd stderred

### Compiling

For 32-bit system:

    make lib/stderred.so

For 64-bit system:

    make lib64/stderred.so

### Enabling

You can enable stderred in 2 ways.

Recommended one is to export `LD_PRELOAD` variable in your shell's config file.
Put following in you .bashrc/.zshrc:

    if [ -f "/absolute/path/to/lib/stderred.so" ]; then
      export LD_PRELOAD="/absolute/path/to/lib/stderred.so"
    fi

Second option is to create alias and then use it to selectively colorize stderr
for run commands:

    $ alias stderred='LD_PRELOAD=/absolute/path/to/lib/stderred.so'
    $ stderred java lol

Make sure that path to `stderred.so` is absolute!

Note: on a Mac, the following may be necessary instead:

    $ export DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES=/absolute/path/to/lib/stderred.so DYLD_FORCE_FLAT_NAMESPACE=1

### Checking if it works

    $ python -c 'import os; print "Yo!"; os.write(2, "Jola\n\r")'

Jola should be in red dress.

![stderred in action](https://github.com/downloads/sickill/stderred/stderred.png)

### Multi-arch distros

_\* Ignore this section if using Ubuntu. Ubuntu prefers architecture purity and
doesn't allow coexisting 32 and 64-bit packages on the same installation. Thus
this problem doesn't exist on this distro._

On some Linux distros you can run 32-bit binaries on 64-bit system.  Shared
libraries compiled for 64-bit doesn't work with 32-bit binaries though. It
happens that 64-bit binaries call 32-bit ones resulting in warning message
printed to terminal about not compatible `LD_PRELOAD` shared lib.

Fortunately Linux's dynamic linker has a feature called Dynamic String Token
(DST). It allows dynamic substitution of `$LIB` token in `LD_PRELOAD` variable
with "lib" or "lib64" respectively for 32 and 64-bit binaries when the binary
is being run.

Thanks to that you can compile stderred for both architectures and
automatically use proper version of this shared library.

On Fedora, for example, you need to install libc development headers for both
architectures:

    $ sudo yum install glibc-devel.i686 glibc-devel.x86_64

compile it like this:

    $ make both

and export `LD_PRELOAD` like this in your shell's config:

    export LD_PRELOAD="/path/to/stderred/\$LIB/stderred.so"

## Alternative implementations

Simpler and much less reliable solution when using Zsh is to use named pipes
trick proposed on
[Gentoo Linux wiki](http://en.gentoo-wiki.com/wiki/Zsh#Colorize_STDERR).
It has some race condition/buffering issues and breaks on interactive commands
writing to stderr though.

## Authors

Asheesh Laroia -
[original concept](http://www.asheesh.org/note/software/stderred.html) and
[initial implementation](http://git.asheesh.org/?p=zzz/colorize-stderr.git;a=summary)

Marcin Kulik - current implementation

## License

You are free to use this program under the terms of the license found in
LICENSE file.
